compose/reference/up.md, before:

---
description: Builds, (re)creates, starts, and attaches to containers for a service.
keywords: fig, composition, compose, docker, orchestration, cli,  up
title: docker-compose up
notoc: true
---

```
Usage: up [options] [SERVICE...]

Options:
    -d                         Detached mode: Run containers in the background,
                               print new container names.
                               Incompatible with --abort-on-container-exit.
    --no-color                 Produce monochrome output.
    --no-deps                  Don't start linked services.
    --force-recreate           Recreate containers even if their configuration
                               and image haven't changed.
                               Incompatible with --no-recreate.
    --no-recreate              If containers already exist, don't recreate them.
                               Incompatible with --force-recreate.
    --no-build                 Don't build an image, even if it's missing.
    --build                    Build images before starting containers.
    --abort-on-container-exit  Stops all containers if any container was stopped.
                               Incompatible with -d.
    -t, --timeout TIMEOUT      Use this timeout in seconds for container shutdown
                               when attached or when containers are already
                               running. (default: 10)
    --remove-orphans           Remove containers for services not defined in
                               the Compose file
    --exit-code-from SERVICE   Return the exit code of the selected service container.
                               Implies --abort-on-container-exit.
```

Builds, (re)creates, starts, and attaches to containers for a service.

Unless they are already running, this command also starts any linked services.

The `docker-compose up` command aggregates the output of each container. When
the command exits, all containers are stopped. Running `docker-compose up -d`
starts the containers in the background and leaves them running.

If there are existing containers for a service, and the service's configuration
or image was changed after the container's creation, `docker-compose up` picks
up the changes by stopping and recreating the containers (preserving mounted
volumes). To prevent Compose from picking up changes, use the `--no-recreate`
flag.

If you want to force Compose to stop and recreate all containers, use the
`--force-recreate` flag.

Commit message:

Update scale docs
Signed-off-by: Joffrey F <joffrey@docker.com>

compose/reference/up.md, after:

---
description: Builds, (re)creates, starts, and attaches to containers for a service.
keywords: fig, composition, compose, docker, orchestration, cli,  up
title: docker-compose up
notoc: true
---

```
Usage: up [options] [--scale SERVICE=NUM...] [SERVICE...]

Options:
    -d                         Detached mode: Run containers in the background,
                               print new container names.
                               Incompatible with --abort-on-container-exit.
    --no-color                 Produce monochrome output.
    --no-deps                  Don't start linked services.
    --force-recreate           Recreate containers even if their configuration
                               and image haven't changed.
                               Incompatible with --no-recreate.
    --no-recreate              If containers already exist, don't recreate them.
                               Incompatible with --force-recreate.
    --no-build                 Don't build an image, even if it's missing.
    --build                    Build images before starting containers.
    --abort-on-container-exit  Stops all containers if any container was stopped.
                               Incompatible with -d.
    -t, --timeout TIMEOUT      Use this timeout in seconds for container shutdown
                               when attached or when containers are already
                               running. (default: 10)
    --remove-orphans           Remove containers for services not defined in
                               the Compose file
    --exit-code-from SERVICE   Return the exit code of the selected service container.
                               Implies --abort-on-container-exit.
    --scale SERVICE=NUM        Scale SERVICE to NUM instances. Overrides the `scale`
                               setting in the Compose file if present.
```

Builds, (re)creates, starts, and attaches to containers for a service.

Unless they are already running, this command also starts any linked services.

The `docker-compose up` command aggregates the output of each container. When
the command exits, all containers are stopped. Running `docker-compose up -d`
starts the containers in the background and leaves them running.

If there are existing containers for a service, and the service's configuration
or image was changed after the container's creation, `docker-compose up` picks
up the changes by stopping and recreating the containers (preserving mounted
volumes). To prevent Compose from picking up changes, use the `--no-recreate`
flag.

If you want to force Compose to stop and recreate all containers, use the
`--force-recreate` flag.
